Aortic valve replacement.
When damaged,
the aortic valve usually cannot
be repaired and must be replaced.
Aortic valve replacement is done
with either a tissue
or a mechanical valve,
depending on your age,
your disease,
and your willingness to take
anticoagulation medicines.
Tissue valves come from a pig,
from a cow, or from a human.
These valves are very similar
to your own valve and
because your own body accepts them well,
you will not require long term
blood-thinning medication.
The disadvantage of tissue valves, however,
is that they are less durable
than either our own valves
or mechanical valves.
Mechanical valves are more durable
but are not natural,
and they may cause blood clots to form.
Because of that possibility,
people who have mechanical valves
require blood-thinning medication
for the rest of their lives
to prevent blood clots.